README.md, before:

# The Arithmetic Event Horizon Classifier 🌌

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10%2B-blue)](https://www.python.org/)
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/)
[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Experimental-orange)]()

> **Deterministic Isolation of High-Rank Elliptic Curves via Dynamic Entropy**

## 📜 Overview

The **Arithmetic Event Horizon** is a novel, high-speed heuristic classifier designed to estimate the algebraic rank of elliptic curves. 

Traditional methods like $2$-descent scale poorly ($O(N^k)$), making them prohibitive for scanning massive coefficient ranges ($10^{12}+$). This tool introduces a **geometric-dynamic approach**, combining analytic number theory (BSD Proxy) with the chaotic dynamics of the Collatz map ($3x+1$) to achieve a **$515\times$ speedup** over symbolic algebra systems.

## 🚀 Key Discovery: The Primality-Entropy Mechanism

Why does the Collatz map detect Elliptic Curve Rank? Our research uncovered a physical arithmetic link:

* **High-Rank Curves ($r \ge 4$):** Their local group orders ($N_p = \#E(\mathbb{F}_p)$) show a **statistically significant surplus (+3.00%)** of Prime and Semi-Prime values compared to Rank 0 curves.
* **The Mechanism:** A dense Mordell-Weil lattice forces "arithmetic rigidity" in local reductions.
* **The Signature:** Prime numbers trigger immediate ascent steps in the $3x+1$ map, creating high-entropy orbits ("Dynamic Resistance") that our classifier detects.

## 💎 The "Horizon Diamond" Cut

We define a deterministic exclusion zone in the 2D Phase Space ($\Theta_{EH}$ vs $\tau_{max}$):
$$\Theta_{EH} < -25.0 \quad \land \quad \tau_{max} > 65$$
Curves falling into this "Diamond" are High-Rank Candidates with **100% Recall**.

## 🦖 The "Titans" (Unsolved Curves)

Using this miner, we discovered massive curves that currently **overflow standard cloud verification tools** (SageMath/Magma Free tiers) due to their immense complexity. They are open for community verification:

| Titan ID | Equation ($y^2 = x^3 + Ax + B$) | Signal (BSD) | Status |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **#5748** | $A=353055033641, B=478942807048$ | **-32.88** | Root +1 (Even). **Record Holder.** |
| **#1819** | $A=-176565667994, B=-761054807351$ | **-32.12** | Root +1 (Even). Crashed 2GB RAM. |
| **#840** | $A=-79671372370, B=-298716490321$ | **-32.78** | Complex R3 or Higher. |

## 📊 Benchmarks

Tested on 797 LMFDB Genus-2 Jacobian curves:

| Metric | Score |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Global Accuracy** | **94%** |
| **Rank 4 Recall** | **100%** |
| **Speed (per curve)** | **0.017s** |

## 🛠️ Usage

### Quick Start (Google Colab)
1.  Open the provided `Arithmetic_Event_Horizon_Miner.ipynb`.
2.  Run the "Miner" cell to search for new curves.
3.  Use the "Verifier" cell (requires SageMath kernel) for candidates.

### Local Installation
```bash
git clone [https://github.com/andydevok/Arithmetic-Event-Horizon.git](https://github.com/andydevok/Arithmetic-Event-Horizon.git)
cd Arithmetic-Event-Horizon
pip install -r requirements.txt
python miner.py

@article{Pirolo2025EventHorizon,
  title={The Arithmetic Event Horizon: Deterministic Isolation of High-Rank Elliptic Curves via Dynamic Entropy},
  author={Pirolo, Andrés Sebastián},
  year={2025},
  publisher={GitHub},
  journal={Experimental Mathematics Repository},
  url={[https://github.com/andydevok/Arithmetic-Event-Horizon](https://github.com/andydevok/Arithmetic-Event-Horizon)}
}

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 Andrés Sebastián Pirolo

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Change license from MIT to non-commercial
Updated license information to reflect non-commercial use only.

README.md, after:

# The Arithmetic Event Horizon Classifier 🌌

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10%2B-blue)](https://www.python.org/)
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/)
[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Experimental-orange)]()

> **Deterministic Isolation of High-Rank Elliptic Curves via Dynamic Entropy**

## 📜 Overview

The **Arithmetic Event Horizon** is a novel, high-speed heuristic classifier designed to estimate the algebraic rank of elliptic curves. 

Traditional methods like $2$-descent scale poorly ($O(N^k)$), making them prohibitive for scanning massive coefficient ranges ($10^{12}+$). This tool introduces a **geometric-dynamic approach**, combining analytic number theory (BSD Proxy) with the chaotic dynamics of the Collatz map ($3x+1$) to achieve a **$515\times$ speedup** over symbolic algebra systems.

## 🚀 Key Discovery: The Primality-Entropy Mechanism

Why does the Collatz map detect Elliptic Curve Rank? Our research uncovered a physical arithmetic link:

* **High-Rank Curves ($r \ge 4$):** Their local group orders ($N_p = \#E(\mathbb{F}_p)$) show a **statistically significant surplus (+3.00%)** of Prime and Semi-Prime values compared to Rank 0 curves.
* **The Mechanism:** A dense Mordell-Weil lattice forces "arithmetic rigidity" in local reductions.
* **The Signature:** Prime numbers trigger immediate ascent steps in the $3x+1$ map, creating high-entropy orbits ("Dynamic Resistance") that our classifier detects.

## 💎 The "Horizon Diamond" Cut

We define a deterministic exclusion zone in the 2D Phase Space ($\Theta_{EH}$ vs $\tau_{max}$):
$$\Theta_{EH} < -25.0 \quad \land \quad \tau_{max} > 65$$
Curves falling into this "Diamond" are High-Rank Candidates with **100% Recall**.

## 🦖 The "Titans" (Unsolved Curves)

Using this miner, we discovered massive curves that currently **overflow standard cloud verification tools** (SageMath/Magma Free tiers) due to their immense complexity. They are open for community verification:

| Titan ID | Equation ($y^2 = x^3 + Ax + B$) | Signal (BSD) | Status |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **#5748** | $A=353055033641, B=478942807048$ | **-32.88** | Root +1 (Even). **Record Holder.** |
| **#1819** | $A=-176565667994, B=-761054807351$ | **-32.12** | Root +1 (Even). Crashed 2GB RAM. |
| **#840** | $A=-79671372370, B=-298716490321$ | **-32.78** | Complex R3 or Higher. |

## 📊 Benchmarks

Tested on 797 LMFDB Genus-2 Jacobian curves:

| Metric | Score |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Global Accuracy** | **94%** |
| **Rank 4 Recall** | **100%** |
| **Speed (per curve)** | **0.017s** |

## 🛠️ Usage

### Quick Start (Google Colab)
1.  Open the provided `Arithmetic_Event_Horizon_Miner.ipynb`.
2.  Run the "Miner" cell to search for new curves.
3.  Use the "Verifier" cell (requires SageMath kernel) for candidates.

### Local Installation
```bash
git clone [https://github.com/andydevok/Arithmetic-Event-Horizon.git](https://github.com/andydevok/Arithmetic-Event-Horizon.git)
cd Arithmetic-Event-Horizon
pip install -r requirements.txt
python miner.py

@article{Pirolo2025EventHorizon,
  title={The Arithmetic Event Horizon: Deterministic Isolation of High-Rank Elliptic Curves via Dynamic Entropy},
  author={Pirolo, Andrés Sebastián},
  year={2025},
  publisher={GitHub},
  journal={Experimental Mathematics Repository},
  url={[https://github.com/andydevok/Arithmetic-Event-Horizon](https://github.com/andydevok/Arithmetic-Event-Horizon)}
}

⚠️ Non-commercial license.
Commercial use requires explicit permission from the author.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
